Undirected vs. directed connectivity: 
(a) Prove that in any connected undirected graph G = (V, E) there is a vertex v ∈ V whose removal leaves G connected. 
(Hint: Consider the DFS search tree for G.) 

Using the DFS algorithm on the connected undirected graph G, we will be able to mark visited vertices.
If there are some unvisited vertices, we can say that there are multiple connected components.
At that point, the removal of a vertex will leave G disconnected.
This contradicts the first statement saying that G is a connected undirected graph.
Therefore, if the graph is truly connected, then there is a vertex v ∈ V whose removal leaves G connected. 

(b) Give an example of a strongly connected directed graph G = (V, E)
such that, for every v ∈ V, removing v from G leaves a directed graph that is not strongly
connected.

Consider a directed graph G = (V, E) with four vertices and four edges:
G = ({A, B, C, D}, {(A, B), (B, C), (C, D), (D, A)})

In this graph, every vertex is part of a directed cycle. 
If we remove any vertex, it will disconnect the graph because there will be no path to reach other vertices from any single vertex. 
This ensures strong connectivity within the cycles, but removing any vertex will result in a directed graph that is not strongly connected.

(c) In an undirected graph with 2 connected components it is always possible to
make the graph connected by adding only one edge. Give an example of a directed graph
with two strongly connected components such that no addition of one edge can make the
graph strongly connected.

Consider the directed graph G = (V, E) with six vertices and six edges:
V = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6}
E = {(1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 1), (4, 5), (5, 6), (6, 4)}

In this graph, there exist two strongly connected components: {1, 2, 3} and {4, 5, 6}. 
These components form separate cycles, and there is no single edge that can be added to create a path covering all the vertices in both components. 
Consequently, the graph cannot become strongly connected with the addition of a single directed edge.


